
---
layout: default
title: "Week 3"
date: 2026-06-06
---

# Week 3




Hello Guys!

My project is trying to recreate and build on this paper: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5250499

They identify a phenomenon in futures market and create a simple rule to buy or sell futures based on the rule. They also identify conditioning factors that change the outcome of their buy/sell signal but don't apply them. Even with their simple rule they show a relatively high risk adjusted return stream. 

The natural extension of this paper that I am pursuing is to take the conditioning variables that they discuss as having an effect on the phenomena and use them as inputs to various ML models to see if we can beat the returns of the simple rule.

This past week:

I had been interested in the paper from reading the introduction but I went a head and read all 68 pages of it and took notes on the most important parts that will inform how I will need to perform my data wrangling/cleaning, and how the actual testing was done. I also began looking for sources of futures pricing data and found several free ones. The paper uses data from 22 commodities markets, I am looking to use 5-8 for my experiment. 

The author of the paper works within 10 minutes of me at Georgetown university, So I have reached out to him to ask him if he has to time to chat in person/over the phone about this project. I would want to center my questions around the types of addiitonal features I should test, specifically where this basis reversal idea conncts to

This week:

I am beginning to start pulling data in from free sources to see what will need to be done to it. A paid source that I know is a community favorite (DataBento) give new users 125$ in free credits which should be more than sufficient for what I am trying to do, so exploring this will be my next step. It is clear that data will be the biggest hurdle in this project so going to a high quality data provider like DataBento is probably my best bet.
