
---
layout: default
title: "Week 4"
date: 2026-06-18
---

# Week 4


What I did last week:

My largest hurdle in the project by far is the amount of historical quality data that I need to recreate the testing done in the original paper. They use futures data that spans all the way back to 1980. I will not be able to go that far. I will be using DataBento as my data provider and they have the data back to 2006. With the $125 in free credits provided, I have identified all the markets I might need to do this paper and all of the features that I need to request from the data provider. I have done my first data pull using my API key.  I put this data into a pandas dataframe and have begun EDA. Initial work look every promising and I am happy I found such a high quality vendor with generous free credits.

What I will do this week:

The first things i need to do is decide what data/features I need to recreate the original test, and what features i need/want for my ML models. in this way I can design my EDA/data cleaning pipeline once and use it for as many markets as I wish to add.

Impediments/reflections:
I am trying to sharpen my pandas skills by trying to implement this without looking at stack overflow examples and just by using the docs. I think my biggest change I will be making is distributing the work evenly over the course of the week. In doing this I can a) get more done b) have time to think about the ML workflow i want to execute in between work sessions(which will moslty be banging-head -against-wall cleaning sessions for the next few weeks).
